[Workers] Wrangler configuration refactor (#5150)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/wrangler/configuration.md

---

> pcx-content-type: how-to

Reviewer: why `-` instead of `_`?

Author: Probably an auto-format which caught the frontmatter in the crossfire.

Author: Actually taking a look at it, I'm not sure.

<img width="268" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/94662631/192267782-a43357a7-d733-4dd7-915a-9ef0a5f6ae2d.png">

<img width="270" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/94662631/192267799-94c9974f-35a1-4b86-8b03-550b0474f097.png">

I can't see any shortcode that references it - it's just used in `meta` tags for some `.html` files. `pcx_content_type` is the most common so will move back to that.

Wouldn't surprise me if `pcx-content-type` is old and it's simply been changed in production since I made this PR.

---
durable_objects.bindings = [
  { name = "<TEST_OBJECT>", class_name = "<TEST_CLASS>" }
]
```

#### Migrations

When making changes to your Durable Object classes, you must perform a migration. Refer to [Configuring Durable Object classes with migrations](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/learning/using-durable-objects#configuring-durable-object-classes-with-migrations).

{{<definitions>}}

- `tag` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A unique identifier for this migration.

- `new_classes` {{<type>}}string[]{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The new Durable Objects being defined.

- `renamed_classes` {{<type>}}{from: string, to: string}[]{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The Durable Objects being renamed.

- `environment` {{<type>}}string[]{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The Durable Objects being removed.

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
[[migrations]]
tag = ""
new_classes = [""]
renamed_classes = [{from = "DurableObjectExample", to = "UpdatedName" }]
deleted_classes = ["DeprecatedClass"]
```

### KV namespaces

> [Workers KV]((/workers/runtime-apis/kv/)) is a global, low-latency, key-value data store. It stores data in a small number of centralized data centers, then caches that data in Cloudflare’s data centers after access.

Author: ```suggestion
[Workers KV](/workers/runtime-apis/kv/) is a global, low-latency, key-value data store. It stores data in a small number of centralized data centers, then caches that data in Cloudflare’s data centers after access.
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `define` {{<type>}}Record<string, string>{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A map of values to substitute when deploying your Worker.

- `vars` {{<type>}}object{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A map of environment variables to set when deploying your Worker.

- `durable_objects` {{<type>}}object{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A list of Durable Objects that your Worker should be bound to. Refer to [Durable Objects](#durable-objects).

- `kv_namespaces` {{<type>}}object{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A list of KV namespaces that your Worker should be bound to. Refer to [KV namespaces](#kv-namespaces).

- `r2_buckets` {{<type>}}object{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A list of R2 buckets that your Worker should be bound to. Refer to [R2 buckets](#r2-buckets).

- `services` {{<type>}}object{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A list of service bindings that your Worker should be bound to. Refer to [service bindings](#service-bindings).

{{</definitions>}}

## Types of routes

There are four types of routes.

> ### Simple Route

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Simple route
```

This is a simple route that only requires a pattern.

Example: `"example.com/*"`

> ### Zone ID Route

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Zone ID route
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `pattern` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The pattern that your Worker should be run on, e.g. `"example.com/*"`.

- `zone_id` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The ID of the zone that your `pattern` is associated with.
>     Refer to [find zone and account IDs](/fundamentals/get-started/basic-tasks/find-account-and-zone-ids/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The ID of the zone that your `pattern` is associated with. Refer to [Find zone and account IDs](/fundamentals/get-started/basic-tasks/find-account-and-zone-ids/).
```

- `custom_domain` {{<type>}}boolean{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - Whether the Worker should be on a Custom Domain as opposed to a route. Defaults to `false`.
>     Refer to [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Whether the Worker should be on a Custom Domain as opposed to a route. Defaults to `false`. Refer to [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains/).
```

{{</definitions>}}

Example: `{ pattern = "example.com/*", zone_id = "foo" }`

> ### Zone Name Route

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Zone name route
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `pattern` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The pattern that your Worker should be run on, e.g. `"example.com/*"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The pattern that your Worker should be run on, for example, `"example.com/*"`.
```

- `zone_name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The name of the zone that your `pattern` is associated with.
>     If you are using API tokens, this will require the `Account` scope.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The name of the zone that your `pattern` is associated with. If you are using API tokens, this will require the `Account` scope.
```

- `custom_domain` {{<type>}}boolean{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - Whether the Worker should be on a Custom Domain as opposed to a route. Defaults to `false`.
>     Refer to [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Whether the Worker should be on a Custom Domain as opposed to a route. Defaults to `false`. Refer to [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains/).
```

{{</definitions>}}

Example: `{ pattern = "example.com/*", zone_id = "foo" }`

> ### Custom Domain Route

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Custom Domain route
```

This will use a Custom Domain as opposed to a route. Refer to [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains/).

{{<definitions>}}

- `pattern` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The pattern that your Worker should be run on, e.g. `"example.com/*"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The pattern that your Worker should be run on, for example, `"example.com/*"`.
```

- `custom_domain` {{<type>}}boolean{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - Whether the Worker should be on a Custom Domain as opposed to a route. Defaults to `false`.
>     Refer to [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Whether the Worker should be on a Custom Domain as opposed to a route. Defaults to `false`. Refer to [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains/).
```

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
route = { pattern = "example.com/*", custom_domain: true }
```

## Triggers

> Triggers allow you to define the `cron` expression to invoke your Worker's `scheduled` function.
> Refer to [supported cron expressions](/workers/platform/cron-triggers/#supported-cron-expressions).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Triggers allow you to define the `cron` expression to invoke your Worker's `scheduled` function. Refer to [Supported cron expressions](/workers/platform/cron-triggers/#supported-cron-expressions).
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `cron` {{<type>}}string[]{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - An array of `cron` expressions.

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
[triggers]
crons = ["* * * * *"]
```

> ## Custom Builds

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Custom builds
```

> You can configure a custom build step that will be run before your Worker is published.
> Refer to [custom builds](/workers/wrangler/custom-builds/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure a custom build step that will be run before your Worker is published. Refer to [Custom builds](/workers/wrangler/custom-builds/).
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `command` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The command used to build your Worker. On Linux and macOS, the command is executed in the `sh` shell
>     and the `cmd` shell for Windows. The `&&` and `||` shell operators may be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The command used to build your Worker. On Linux and macOS, the command is executed in the `sh` shell and the `cmd` shell for Windows. The `&&` and `||` shell operators may be used.
```

- `cwd` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The directory in which the command is executed.

- `watch_dir` {{<type>}}string | string[]{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The directory to watch for changes while using `wrangler dev`. Defaults to the current working directory.

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
[build]
command = "npm run build"
cwd = "build_cwd"
watch_dir = "build_watch_dir"
```

## Bindings

### Durable Objects

> Durable Objects provide low-latency coordination and consistent storage for the Workers platform.
> Refer to [using Durable Objects](/workers/learning/using-durable-objects/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Durable Objects](/workers/learning/using-durable-objects/) provide low-latency coordination and consistent storage for the Workers platform.
```

To bind Durable Objects to your Worker, assign an array of the below object to the `durable_objects.bindings` key.

{{<definitions>}}

- `name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The name of the binding used to refer to the Durable Object.

- `class_name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The exported class name of the Durable Object.

- `script_name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The script where the Durable Object is defined, if it's external to this Worker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The script where the Durable Object is defined, if it is external to this Worker.
```

- `environment` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The service environment of the `script_name` to bind to.

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
durable_objects.bindings = [

>   { name = "TEST_OBJECT", class_name = "TEST_CLASS" }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  { name = "<TEST_OBJECT>", class_name = "<TEST_CLASS>" }
```

]
```

#### Migrations

> When making changes to your Durable Object classes, you must perform a migration.
> Refer to [configuring Durable Object classes with migrations](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/learning/using-durable-objects#configuring-durable-object-classes-with-migrations).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When making changes to your Durable Object classes, you must perform a migration. Refer to [Configuring Durable Object classes with migrations](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/learning/using-durable-objects#configuring-durable-object-classes-with-migrations).
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `tag` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A unique identifier for this migration.

- `new_classes` {{<type>}}string[]{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The new Durable Objects being defined.

- `renamed_classes` {{<type>}}{from: string, to: string}[]{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The Durable Objects being renamed.

- `environment` {{<type>}}string[]{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The Durable Objects being removed.

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
[[migrations]]
tag = ""
new_classes = [""]
renamed_classes = [{from = "DurableObjectExample", to = "UpdatedName" }]
deleted_classes = ["DeprecatedClass"]
```

> ### KV Namespaces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### KV namespaces
```

> Workers KV is a global, low-latency, key-value data store. It stores data in a small number of centralized data centers,
> then caches that data in Cloudflare’s data centers after access.
> Refer to [KV](/workers/runtime-apis/kv/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Workers KV]((/workers/runtime-apis/kv/)) is a global, low-latency, key-value data store. It stores data in a small number of centralized data centers, then caches that data in Cloudflare’s data centers after access.
```

To bind KV namespaces to your Worker, assign an array of the below object to the `kv_namespaces` key.

{{<definitions>}}

- `binding` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The binding name used to refer to the KV namespace.

- `id` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The ID of the KV namespace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The ID of the KV namespace.
```

- `preview_id` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The ID of the KV namespace used during `wrangler dev`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The ID of the KV namespace used during `wrangler dev`.
```

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
kv_namespaces = [

>   { binding = "TEST_NAMESPACE", id = "TEST_ID" }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  { binding = "<TEST_NAMESPACE>", id = "<TEST_ID>" }
```

]
```

> ### R2 Buckets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### R2 buckets
```

> Cloudflare R2 Storage allows developers to store large amounts of unstructured data without the costly egress bandwidth fees associated with typical cloud storage services.
> Refer to [R2](/r2).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Cloudflare R2 Storage](/r2) allows developers to store large amounts of unstructured data without the costly egress bandwidth fees associated with typical cloud storage services.
```

To bind R2 buckets to your Worker, assign an array of the below object to the `r2_buckets` key.

{{<definitions>}}

- `binding` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The binding name used to refer to the R2 bucket.

- `bucket_name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The name of this R2 bucket.

- `preview_bucket_name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The preview name of this R2 bucket used during `wrangler dev`.

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
r2_buckets  = [

>   { binding = "TEST_BUCKET", bucket_name = "TEST_BUCKET"}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  { binding = "<TEST_BUCKET>", bucket_name = "<TEST_BUCKET>"}
```

]
```

> ### Service Bindings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Service bindings
```

> A Service binding allows you to send HTTP requests to another Worker without those requests going over the Internet.
> The request immediately invokes the downstream Worker, reducing latency as compared to a request to a third-party service.
> Refer to [About Service Bindings](/workers/platform/bindings/about-service-bindings/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A service binding allows you to send HTTP requests to another Worker without those requests going over the Internet. The request immediately invokes the downstream Worker, reducing latency as compared to a request to a third-party service. Refer to [About Service Bindings](/workers/platform/bindings/about-service-bindings/).
```

To bind other Workers to your Worker, assign an array of the below object to the `services` key.

{{<definitions>}}

- `binding` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The binding name used to refer to the bound service.

- `service` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The name of the service.

- `environment` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   -  The environment of the service (e.g. `production`, `staging`, etc). Refer to [Service Environments](/workers/platform/environments/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  -  The environment of the service (for example, `production`, `staging`, etc). Refer to [Service Environments](/workers/platform/environments/).
```

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
services = [

>   { binding = "TEST_BINDING", service = "TEST_WORKER" }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  { binding = "<TEST_BINDING>", service = "<TEST_WORKER>" }
```

]
```

## Bundling

You can bundle assets into your Worker using the `rules` key, making these assets available to be imported when your Worker is invoked. The `rules` key will be an array of the below object.

{{<definitions>}}

- `type` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The type of asset. Must be one of `ESModule`, `CommonJS`, `CompiledWasm`, `Text` or `Data`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The type of asset. Must be one of: `ESModule`, `CommonJS`, `CompiledWasm`, `Text` or `Data`.
```

- `globs` {{<type>}}string[]{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - An array of glob rules (e.g `["**/*.md"]`). Refer to [glob](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/glob.7.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - An array of glob rules (for example, `["**/*.md"]`). Refer to [glob](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/glob.7.html).
```

export default {
  async fetch() {
    return new Response(markdown)
  }
}
```

## Local development settings

You can configure various aspects of local development, such as the local protocol or port.

{{<definitions>}}

- `ip` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - IP address for the local dev server to listen on. Defaults to `localhost`.

- `port` {{<type>}}number{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - Port for the local dev server to listen on. Defaults to `8787`.

- `local_protocol` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  -  Protocol that local dev server listens to requests on. Defaults to `http`.

- `upstream_protocol` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  -  Protocol that the local dev server forwards requests on. Defaults to `https`.

- `host` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  -  Host to forward requests to, defaults to the host of the first `route` of the Worker.

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
[dev]
ip = "192.168.1.1"
port = "8080"
local_protocol = "http"
```

> ### Environmental Variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Environmental variables
```

> When developing locally, you can create a `.dev.vars` file in the project root which allows you to define variables
> that will be used when running `wrangler dev` or `wrangler pages dev`, as opposed to using another environment and
> `[vars]` in `wrangler.toml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When developing locally, you can create a `.dev.vars` file in the project root which allows you to define variables that will be used when running `wrangler dev` or `wrangler pages dev`, as opposed to using another environment and `[vars]` in `wrangler.toml`.
```

There is a default (top-level) environment and named environments that provide environment-specific configuration.

## Environments

Environments allow you to configure different configurations for different environments.

These are defined under `[env.name]` keys, such as `[env.staging]` which you can then preview or publish
with the `-e` / `--env` flag in the `wrangler` commands like `wrangler publish --env staging`.

Whilst the majority of keys are inheritable, meaning that top-level configuration can be used in environments,
bindings such as `vars` or `kv_namespaces` are not inheritable and need to be defined explicitly.

## Inheritable keys

Inheritable keys are configurable at the top-level, and can be inherited (or overridden)
by environment-specific configuration.

{{<Aside type="note">}}
At a minimum, `name`, `main` and `compatibility_date` are required to publish a Worker.
{{</Aside>}}

{{<definitions>}}

- `name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The name of your Worker. Alphanumeric + dashes only.

- `main` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The entrypoint/path to the JavaScript file that will be executed.

Reviewer: Could technically be js/mjs/ts
```suggestion
  - The path to the entrypoint of your Worker that will be executed. For example: `./src/index.ts`
```

- `compatibility_date` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A date in the form `yyyy-mm-dd`, which will be used to determine which version of the Workers
    runtime is used. Refer to [compatibility dates](/workers/platform/compatibility-dates/).

- `account_id` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - This is the ID of the account associated with your zone. You might have more than one account,
    so make sure to use the ID of the account associated with the zone/route you provide, if you
    provide one. It can also be specified through the `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID` environment variable.

- `compatibility_flags` {{<type>}}string[]{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A list of flags that enable features from upcoming features of the Workers runtime, usually
    used together with `compatibility_date`. Refer to [compatibility dates](/workers/platform/compatibility-dates/).

- `workers_dev` {{<type>}}boolean{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - Whether we use `<name>.<subdomain>.workers.dev` to test and deploy your Worker. If you have a Worker that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Enables use of `<name>.<subdomain>.workers.dev` to test and deploy your Worker. If you have a Worker that
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `define` {{<type>}}Record<string, string>{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A map of values to substitute when deploying your Worker.

- `vars` {{<type>}}object{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A map of environment variables to set when deploying your Worker.

- `durable_objects` {{<type>}}object{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A list of Durable Objects that your Worker should be bound to. Refer to [Durable Objects](#durable-objects).

- `kv_namespaces` {{<type>}}object{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A list of KV namespaces that your Worker should be bound to. Refer to [KV namespaces](#kv-namespaces).

- `r2_buckets` {{<type>}}object{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A list of R2 buckets that your Worker should be bound to. Refer to [R2 buckets](#r2-buckets).

- `services` {{<type>}}object{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - A list of service bindings that your Worker should be bound to. Refer to [service bindings](#service-bindings).

{{</definitions>}}

## Types of routes

There are four types of routes.

> #### Simple Route

Reviewer: Should keep headings semantically ordered - h3 follows h2, etc
```suggestion
### Simple Route
```

> This is a simple route, which you will be accustomed to using from Wrangler 1.

Reviewer: We probably shouldn't assume folks have used Wrangler 1

Author: Fair enough - it also rarely works since lots of people get the mystical "SSL for SaaS wildcard entitlement" that requires a zone to be specified

Example: `"example.com/*"`

> #### Zone ID Route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Zone ID Route
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `pattern` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The pattern that your Worker should be run on, e.g. `"example.com/*"`.

- `zone_id` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The ID of the zone that your `pattern` is associated with.
    Refer to [find zone and account IDs](/fundamentals/get-started/basic-tasks/find-account-and-zone-ids/)

- `custom_domain` {{<type>}}boolean{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - Whether the Worker should be on a Custom Domain as opposed to a route. Defaults to `false`.
    Refer to [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains/).

{{</definitions>}}

Example: `{ pattern = "example.com/*", zone_id = "foo" }`

> #### Zone Name Route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Zone Name Route
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `pattern` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The pattern that your Worker should be run on, e.g. `"example.com/*"`.

- `zone_name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The name of the zone that your `pattern` is associated with.
    If you are using API tokens, this will require the `Account` scope.

- `custom_domain` {{<type>}}boolean{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - Whether the Worker should be on a Custom Domain as opposed to a route. Defaults to `false`.
    Refer to [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains/).

{{</definitions>}}

Example: `{ pattern = "example.com/*", zone_id = "foo" }`

> #### Custom Domain Route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Custom Domain Route
```

> This is a route that is associated with an SSL for SaaS custom hostname. If you are not using

Reviewer: This could probably use a bit more explaining

Author: Oops - this is from when I thought custom domains was SSL for SaaS rather than the custom domains feature for Workers.

Thought I'd changed them all

SSL for SaaS, this is effectively a simple route.

{{<definitions>}}

- `pattern` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The pattern that your Worker should be run on, e.g. `"example.com/*"`.

- `custom_domain` {{<type>}}boolean{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - Whether the Worker should be on a Custom Domain as opposed to a route. Defaults to `false`.
    Refer to [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains/).

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
route = { pattern = "example.com/*", custom_domain: true }
```

## Triggers

Triggers allow you to define the `cron` expression to invoke your Worker's `scheduled` function.
Refer to [supported cron expressions](/workers/platform/cron-triggers/#supported-cron-expressions).

{{<definitions>}}

- `cron` {{<type>}}string[]{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - An array of `cron` expressions.

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
[triggers]

> crons = ["1 * * * *"]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
crons = ["* * * * *"]
```

Cron triggers with a 1 serve no purpose other than to force people (...may be me) to look up what they mean, so I suggest we correct them to `* * * * *` 😄

- `include` {{<type>}}number{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - An exclusive list of .gitignore-style patterns that match file  or directory names from your bucket location.
    Only matched items will be uploaded.

- `exclude` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  -  A list of .gitignore-style patterns that match files or directories in your bucket that should be
     excluded from uploads.

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
[site]
bucket = "./public"
include = ["upload_dir"]
exclude = ["ignore_dir"]
```

## Proxy Support

Corporate networks will often have proxies on their networks and this can sometimes cause connectivity issues. To
configure Wrangler with the appropriate proxy details, use the below environmental variables:

- `https_proxy`
- `HTTPS_PROXY`
- `http_proxy`
- `HTTP_PROXY`

To configure this on MacOS, add `HTTP_PROXY=http://<YOUR_PROXY_HOST>:<YOUR_PROXY_PORT>` before your Wrangler commands.

Example:

```bash
HTTP_PROXY=http://localhost:8080 wrangler dev
```

If your IT team has configured your computer's proxy settings, be aware that the first non-empty environment variable

> in this list will be used when Wrangler makes outgoing requests.

Reviewer: unnecessary newline here

]
```

## Bundling

> You can bundle assets into your Worker using the `rules` key, making these available to
> be imported when your Worker is invoked. The `rules` key will be an array of the below object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can bundle assets into your Worker using the `rules` key, making these assets available to be imported when your Worker is invoked. The `rules` key will be an array of the below object.
```

For example, if both `https_proxy` and `http_proxy` are set, Wrangler will only use `https_proxy` for outgoing requests.

> ## Example configuration

Reviewer: @deadlypants1973 and I were talking, and we think this section should be probably the first thing on this page
```suggestion
## Sample wrangler.toml configuration
```

Author: At the top top or below the 'Configure `wrangler.toml`' heading?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/94662631/192756362-14c424c3-ad36-4523-b8e3-c0728b2a3fd2.png)

Reviewer: There's good - I'd probably shift that paragraph about environments under the `Environments` heading

SECRET_KEY = "value"
```

## Node compatibility

> You can add experimental Node compatibility to your Worker by adding the `node_compat` key to your `wrangler.toml`
> or by passing the `--node-compat` flag to `wrangler`.
> 
> It's not possible to polyfill all Node APIs or behaviours, but it's possible to polyfill some of them. APIs such as `fs`
> can't be replicated as Workers has no concept of a filesystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add experimental Node compatibility to your Worker by adding the `node_compat` key to your `wrangler.toml` or by passing the `--node-compat` flag to `wrangler`.

It is not possible to polyfill all Node APIs or behaviours, but it is possible to polyfill some of them. APIs such as `fs` cannot be replicated as Workers has no concept of a filesystem.
```

> This is currently powered by `@esbuild-plugins/node-globals-polyfill`
> which in itself is powered by [rollup-plugin-node-polyfills](https://github.com/ionic-team/rollup-plugin-node-polyfills/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is currently powered by `@esbuild-plugins/node-globals-polyfill` which in itself is powered by [rollup-plugin-node-polyfills](https://github.com/ionic-team/rollup-plugin-node-polyfills/).
```

## Workers Sites

{{<Aside type="note" header="Cloudflare Pages">}}
Consider using [Cloudflare Pages](/pages/) for hosting static applications instead of Workers Sites.
{{</Aside>}}

> Workers Sites allows you to host static websites, or dynamic websites using frameworks like Vue or React, on Workers.
> Refer to [Workers Sites](/workers/platform/sites).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Workers Sites](/workers/platform/sites) allows you to host static websites, or dynamic websites using frameworks like Vue or React, on Workers.
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `bucket` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The directory containing your static assets. It must be a path relative to your `wrangler.toml` file.

- `include` {{<type>}}number{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - An exclusive list of .gitignore-style patterns that match file  or directory names from your bucket location.
>     Only matched items will be uploaded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - An exclusive list of `.gitignore`-style patterns that match file  or directory names from your bucket location. Only matched items will be uploaded.
```

- `exclude` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   -  A list of .gitignore-style patterns that match files or directories in your bucket that should be
>      excluded from uploads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  -  A list of `.gitignore`-style patterns that match files or directories in your bucket that should be excluded from uploads.
```

{{</definitions>}}

Example:

```toml
---
header: wrangler.toml
---
[site]
bucket = "./public"
include = ["upload_dir"]
exclude = ["ignore_dir"]
```

> ## Proxy Support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Proxy support
```

> Corporate networks will often have proxies on their networks and this can sometimes cause connectivity issues. To
> configure Wrangler with the appropriate proxy details, use the below environmental variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Corporate networks will often have proxies on their networks and this can sometimes cause connectivity issues. To configure Wrangler with the appropriate proxy details, use the below environmental variables:
```
